README.md, before:

# WFH API 
### What is this?
We at pebble have an remote working policy, so to help find out who is working where; we have built a system to show the list of workers and thier status. For more details see our blogpost:http://pebblecode.com/blog/hack-day-wfh-bot/ Do you also work in a remote workplace? If you're using Slack you can easily deploy your own, and even start building things with the api. We have two services connecting to our api, one to send a summary email every day mon-fri at 10am and another which pulls sickness and holiday information from our HR system.

This repo contains a node implementation of the pebble {code}the wfh api, more details see blogpost: http://pebblecode.com/blog/hack-day-wfh-bot/


###functionality
This adds the following slash commands in slack:
`/wfo`
`/wfh`

### Slack slash command parameters
message: `/wfh message:I'll be at home in my pants` or `/wfo message:I'll be at the stand up desk today`
default: `/wfh default:wfo` this allows your default location to be either `wfh,wfo` 

The first time a user does /wfh, /wfo opts the user into the system. After that they will be shown in the api response /workers.


#Have your own instance of WFH. [![Deploy your own!](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://dashboard.heroku.com/new?template=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpebblecode%2Fwfh3_backend)
You will need to configure Slack slash [commands](https://slack.com/services#service_16).
use `/wfh` and `/wfo` to point to: `/webhooks/slack`, use a post request and add the tokens to the apps environment variables

#Deployment
- Up to you. we currently use heroku. 
- Deploy your own.  
[![Deploy your own!](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://dashboard.heroku.com/new?template=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpebblecode%2Fwfh3_backend)
- DB is [couchdb](http://couchdb.apache.org/) and easily hosted on [Cloudant](https://cloudant.com/) create a database called: `wfh`
- #####ENV variables Set the following to get your app up and running
    - COUCHDB_USERNAME
    - COUCHDB_PASSWORD
    - COUCHDB_URL
    - COUCHDB_PORT
    - COUCHDB_NAME

    - SEGMENT_IO_WRITE_KEY (optional) used for tracking and graphs to work out averages for sickness, holiday, out of office etc.
    - SLACK_TOKEN used to get a users profile see slack [docs](https://api.slack.com/).


#Development && installation
[Install CouchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org/#download) and run.
For a nicer couch db ui install: `npm i -g fauxton` then in a new shell run `fauxton`

`npm i && npm i -g nodemon`
start server locally
`npm run dev`

When NODE_ENV === 'development' connection will be made with localhost couchdb. 

###Configuration for local development.
Copy `config.template.js > config.js` and complete the default fields `getEnv('ENV_VAR','DEFAULT_VALUE')`,
to get a slack token visit: https://api.slack.com/web


#Endpoints

| path       |  method | payload | details |
|------------|---------|---------|---------|
|   /workers |   GET   |         | get all workers, used by email cron and tv display |
|   /workers |   POST   |   `{"name":"John Snow", "email":"john.snow@pebblecode.com", status:"Sick" }`  | create a new worker, `"message": "your message"` is optional |
| /workers   | PUT | `{"email":"john.snow@pebblecode.com", "status":"Holiday"}` | Update status for worker|
| /workers/{id}   | DELETE |  | Delete a worker|


#Helpful Links
 - Slack [api](https://api.slack.com/).
 - [Segment](https://segment.io).

#Contributing 
Awesome! Get in touch first, make an issue to discuss your change and we can go from there. Will be followed by a PR.

# TODO:
- Add functionality to delete workers (use slack as source of truth. slack api)
- Websocket support for connecting devices
- Docker deployment - fix bcrypt build errors: https://github.com/ncb000gt/node.bcrypt.js/issues/368

Commit message:

docs and app.json updated for admin password hash

README.md, after:

# WFH API 
### What is this?
We at pebble have an remote working policy, so to help find out who is working where; we have built a system to show the list of workers and thier status. For more details see our blogpost:http://pebblecode.com/blog/hack-day-wfh-bot/ Do you also work in a remote workplace? If you're using Slack you can easily deploy your own, and even start building things with the api. We have two services connecting to our api, one to send a summary email every day mon-fri at 10am and another which pulls sickness and holiday information from our HR system.

This repo contains a node implementation of the pebble {code}the wfh api, more details see blogpost: http://pebblecode.com/blog/hack-day-wfh-bot/


###functionality
This adds the following slash commands in slack:
`/wfo`
`/wfh`

### Slack slash command parameters
message: `/wfh message:I'll be at home in my pants` or `/wfo message:I'll be at the stand up desk today`
default: `/wfh default:wfo` this allows your default location to be either `wfh,wfo` 

The first time a user does /wfh, /wfo opts the user into the system. After that they will be shown in the api response /workers.


#Have your own instance of WFH. [![Deploy your own!](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://dashboard.heroku.com/new?template=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpebblecode%2Fwfh3_backend)
You will need to configure Slack slash [commands](https://slack.com/services#service_16).
use `/wfh` and `/wfo` to point to: `/webhooks/slack`, use a post request and add the tokens to the apps environment variables

#Deployment
- Up to you. we currently use heroku. 
- Deploy your own.  
[![Deploy your own!](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://dashboard.heroku.com/new?template=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpebblecode%2Fwfh3_backend)
- DB is [couchdb](http://couchdb.apache.org/) and easily hosted on [Cloudant](https://cloudant.com/) create a database called: `wfh`
- #####ENV variables Set the following to get your app up and running
    - COUCHDB_USERNAME
    - COUCHDB_PASSWORD
    - COUCHDB_URL
    - COUCHDB_PORT
    - COUCHDB_NAME

    - SEGMENT_IO_WRITE_KEY (optional) used for tracking and graphs to work out averages for sickness, holiday, out of office etc.
    - SLACK_TOKEN used to get a users profile see slack [docs](https://api.slack.com/).

    - ADMIN_PASSWORD for admin user, basic auth password

#Development && installation
[Install CouchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org/#download) and run.
For a nicer couch db ui install: `npm i -g fauxton` then in a new shell run `fauxton`

`npm i && npm i -g nodemon`
start server locally
`npm run dev`

When NODE_ENV === 'development' connection will be made with localhost couchdb. 

###Configuration for local development.
Copy `config.template.js > config.js` and complete the default fields `getEnv('ENV_VAR','DEFAULT_VALUE')`,
to get a slack token visit: https://api.slack.com/web


#Endpoints

| path       |  method | payload | details |
|------------|---------|---------|---------|
|   /workers |   GET   |         | get all workers, used by email cron and tv display |
|   /workers |   POST   |   `{"name":"John Snow", "email":"john.snow@pebblecode.com", status:"Sick" }`  | create a new worker, `"message": "your message"` is optional |
| /workers   | PUT | `{"email":"john.snow@pebblecode.com", "status":"Holiday"}` | Update status for worker|
| /workers/{id}   | DELETE |  | Delete a worker|

#AUTH 
is BASIC auth and password is a hashed bcrypt stored in the `ADMIN_PASSWORD` env variable.

#Helpful Links
 - Slack [api](https://api.slack.com/).
 - [Segment](https://segment.io).

#Contributing 
Awesome! Get in touch first, make an issue to discuss your change and we can go from there. Will be followed by a PR.

# TODO:
- Add functionality to delete workers (use slack as source of truth. slack api)
- Websocket support for connecting devices
- Docker deployment - fix bcrypt build errors: https://github.com/ncb000gt/node.bcrypt.js/issues/368
